Bisrat D Gezahgne
Phone: (720) - 645-7090
Denver, Colorado
Email: bisrat0104@gmail.com
Entry Level (Junior BI Developer)
Talented and motivated Microsoft SQL Server Developer with experience in MS SQL Server, SSIS (SQL Server Integration Service), SSRS (SQL Server Reporting Service).
Professional Summary
◼ knowledgeable in relational database systems and experienced in SQL database design & development, data modeling, Normalization, Enforcing various types of Data Integrity.
◼ Created various database objects such as Stored Procedures, Triggers, Tables, User Defined Functions, Views, and Indexes.
◼ Enhanced the performance of T-SQL query by indexing, performance tuning, recompiling the execution plan, and using SQL profiler.
◼ Expert in Query Optimization and Performance Tuning using tools SQL Profiler and Database Engine Tuning Advisor (DTA), as well as individually analyzing execution plans to identify query structures for efficiency optimization.
◼ knowledge on Enterprise Data Warehousing design and multidimensional Data structure including star schema, snowflakes schema, cube design and exposure to MDX queries.
◼ Worked on OLTP Relational Schema with Normalization and OLAP Dimensional Modeling using Star schema.
◼ Experienced with ETL SSIS packages in integrating data from different data sources (Excel, flat file) to Normalized SQL server Database and/or to Data warehouse.
◼ Wide experience in building static, dynamic, interactive parameterized, drilldown, drill-through, sub-report and dashboard reports using SSDT/ Visual Studio.
◼ Proficient in creating various Data visualization and Dashboard reports in Power BI Tool.
◼ Performed SSIS/SSRS development
◼ Ability and willingness to learn new technology and deliver results in a timely manner.
◼ Proactive and be able to work both independently and collaboratively with staff, internal, customers and external vendors.
Technical Skill
⚫ Database language: T-SQL
⚫ RDMS Database: - Microsoft SQL Server 2012/2014/2016
⚫ Operating System: Windows server
⚫ Software: SQL Server Management Studio, Microsoft Visual Studio, Microsoft Office, Database Engine Tuning, SQL Server Profiler
⚫ BI Tools: SSIS, Pentaho, SSRS, Power BI, MicroStrategy, Excel
Education and Certification
https://coursera.org/share/2928a75f072b03145bf7e18b8c71d21d
Reference: Available upon request
